
Examples of Good Rocking (on qwerty):
yeah -- right index finger stretches to 'y'
position, then left hand rocks from 'e' on middle
finger to 'a' on pinky, then back to right index,
still stretched in the same direction, on 'h'.

toast -- left index stretched to 't', then right
ring on 'o', 'as' rolls using left pinky and ring,
finished by repeat of 't' with same finger.

nation -- repeat on 'n' at beginning and end, 'a'
then 't' rocks well on left hand, both keys can be
touched simultaneously, 'io' is adjacent, 'n'
rests in a special spot relative to 'io' that just
feels right moving into. 'ioj' isn't as nice,
'io;' is flimsy, 'ioy' is nice, there's a similar
kind of stretch.

ies -- 'es' rolls nicely, 'i' feels easy to time.
ch (on ox) -- 'c' is hit with tucked index finger
and 'h' with middle, common phrase, easy to time,
no stretching.

ing -- 'in' flows nicely and gives time for the
left index finger to stretch to 'g'.

tes/set -- the finger stretch sets up the rock
perfectly, it's very satisfying. in 'set',
pressing 's' with the ring finger moves the rest
of the hand so that stretching upwards is natural.

Counterexamples:
pats -- keys line up but are pressed out of order,
easy to type 'past', getting 's' and 't' mixed up.

Spit -- with a capital 'S', 's' is hit with the
left hand, requiring the right hand to move to
shift, but 'p' is typed with the same right hand,
causing a delay while the finger is moving.

ing (on ox) -- 'in' is adjacent but 'g' is hit
with the index finger of the same hand, the
stretching misaligns the rest of the hand, losing
confidence in finger placement.

Observations:
Sequences feel best when ending on a strong
finger; either middle or first. These fingers
might have more accurate timing.

Keys are typed in multi-letter sequences. When
typing a string of keys that is uncommon, you have
to stop and think of the letters specifically,
rather than using a known motion.

Having common motions play well on the keyboard
will go a long way in making it feel nice.

Stretches might be useful after hitting a group of
tight keys to move the hand away from the group.

It's nice for groups to all be on the same row; if
you're reaching up high, other high keys are going
to be easier to hit than low or even middle keys.

Hand stretching causes misalignment of the fingers
of the same hand, leading to a loss of confidence
in finger placement, a slowdown, and typos.

Stretching is positive in some situations and
negative in others.

In general, 'se' and 'li' on qwerty, the middle
ring and upper middle keys feel great pressed
together. Even better when the index finger is
then stretched out and hit afterwards.

In fact, even though 'y' is typically very hard to
hit, after 'li', it's practically nothing.

'sc' and 'lm' on qwerty has the same effect. It's
an easy rocking motion between the center ring
position and the tucked index.

Surprisingly, moving between the center middle and
center index postions is not always that easy.
They both want to activate at the same time,
creating slight out-of-order typos.

Center middle with upper index is ok; better on
the right than the left because of row offsets.

Upper middle with center index is good too.

'ty' is nice because both hands stretch evenly.

There's a slight pause in the phrase 'jou', as the
index finger is moving over the 'u'. The 'o' can
not fire until 'u' is ready, or else the timing of
the movement will be off.

'xc' is nice because it is adjacent on the bottom
row; both keys are typically hard to hit but easy
when the hand is already in the right position.

The upper middle position is actually very
versatile: it transitions well into all index and
ring postions, although it is still weak moving
into the pinky. Actually, I will note that ring is
better moving into upper middle than the other way
around.

The pinky pairs well with any index position, even
the worst stretches, in either direction. The ring
finger is a bad match because it is too close not
much stronger than the pinky.

It might stand to reason that because the pinkies
hit the shift keys the index fingers are the
easiest positions to shift. Although practically
it might not make a huge difference.

Being able to move in easy phrases makes a huge
difference in speed.

I think the thing with stretched combinations is
that the stretch takes time to achieve but is more
structurally stable, allowing more precision by
leveraging the wrist.
